Dear Hiring team Manager

I am applying for Software Engineer with Google on the Google career website. I was really excited to see this position because it is a great opportunity to work on the bleeding edge of technology and with all heap of other talented people.  I would be able to contribute to your company valuably and I am confident that you will find my creativity, positive attitude, great learning abilities, excellent leadership skills and solid technical skills are an excellent match for this role.

After seeing all the innovative products and services that Google offers to the public, I am very encouraged to continue my software engineering career path with Google. I am experienced in C, Java, Python, and JavaScript and have finished all related school projects with excellent grade. I am a huge fan of Algorithms, Data Structures, and Theory of Computing especially on Turing Machines and Time Complexity. I enjoy coding and love to utilize code to solve pain points in our lives. It is safe to say that coding is not only a part of my academic life but also in all other aspects of my life. 

During my sixteen-month co-op with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Enterprise Architecture team as an application developer. My responsibility was to assist architects with different proof of concept projects and give my recommendations. During that time, I had the honor to work with the Data Architecture team and build a Hadoop cluster to test its capabilities. I am able to quickly learn and be comfortable with Hadoop architecture within a few weeks without any prior background knowledge of distributive data storage and processing. That demonstrated my excellent learning abilities and strong technical skills. In the end, our Hadoop cluster is able to take and process MapReduce request successfully. 

Another challenge that was thrown at me is to lead a Co-op team of seven to find and build a process to bridge the communication gap between the Business team and the Architecture team. We were using PowerPoint or Word document to advertise our technology standards or patterns. However, that wasn¡¯t really effective. My solution is to use an animated video to achieve that goal with some really easy to use software. With proper training materials I put together, all co-op students who don¡¯t really have any video editing background are now able to produce high-quality videos. We receive excellent feedback from all different bank department and asking how do they produce their own. That process is now a standard practice within the Enterprise Architecture team for their pattern advertisement. And there are few other teams looking to that option meanwhile. Most importantly I receive excellent feedback from my own team. They have nominated me as 2018 Q2 Top Achiever. Later, I become the winner of that reward. Also, I have been rated as ¡°Exceptional¡± in my final work evaluation. That is a wonderful exhibition of my creativity and leadership skills.

As a hardworking and dedicated individual, I am extremally welcome to any new challenges. I would welcome an opportunity to meet with you in person to discuss my qualifications further. Thank you for your valuable time and consideration.

Regards,
Yuesen Dong
